.TH macrandom 1  "September 12, 2020" "version 1.0" "USER COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
macrandom \- Generate a valid mac address
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B macrandom
[\-hv]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B macrandom
generates a valid mac address from the iee's oui.txt database. It parses the file to obtain valid manufacturer's digits, and use them to generate a valid mac address.
.PP
It is designed for a quick use in the terminal, instead of using internet based tools.
Very often, internet based tools do not generate mac addresses belonging to a real manufacturer, making them easy to identify as fake.
.PP
The result will be a valid mac address. The manufacturer's informations used to generate it are also displayed, following this format:
.PP
OUI/MA-L        Organization
.br
company_id      Organization
.br
                Address
.PP
The first line contains the three digits mac address prefix of the organization, and the organization name.
.br
The second line also contains the three digits mac address prefix of the organization, and the organization name.
.br
Finally, the third line is the address of the organization.
.PP
The full oui.txt file is stored locally on the host. Thus, it is not necessary to have an internet connection to query the iee's manufacturers database.
.PP
.B macrandom
is part of the
.B macutils
suite of tools. It is not a standalone program.
.br
The local copy of oui.txt database is managed by
.B maclookup\fR.
The local database can be updated by using the following command: 
.B maclookup --update
To learn more about how
.B maclookup
manages the oui.txt database, refer to
.B man 1 maclookup
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h, --help
display this help message and exit
.TP
.B \-v, --version
output version information and exit
.SH EXIT STATUS
macrandom returns a zero exist status.
.br
Non zero is returned in case of failure.
.SH AUTHOR
Written by
.B Mathias Schmitt
.SH SEE ALSO
maclookup(1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
.PP
Copyright (C) 2020  Mathias Schmitt

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.
