.TH maclookup 1  "September 12, 2020" "version 1.0" "USER COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
maclookup \- Query IEE's oui database
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B maclookup
[\-huv] mac-address | manufacturer
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B maclookup
reads a mac address passed as an argument, and find its manufacturer in the iee's oui.txt database.
It can also do a reverse search, retrieving all possible three digits mac prefix for a manufacturer.
.PP
It is designed for a quick search in the terminal, instead of using internet based tools.
It is also possible to read the mac address (or the manufacturer name) from the stdin for use in a datapipe (see
.B EXAMPLES\fR)
by using the
.B -S
option.
.PP
The result of a query is the raw data from the oui.txt:
.PP
OUI/MA-L        Organization
.br
company_id      Organization
.br
                Address
.PP
The first line contains the three digits mac address prefix of the organization, and the organization name.
.br
The second line also contains the three digits mac address prefix of the organization, and the organization name.
.br
Finally, the third line is the address of the organization.
.PP
The full oui.txt file is stored locally on the host. Thus, it is not necessary to have an internet connection to query the iee's manufacturers database.
.br
However, an internet connection is required for updates of the database and during installation. If the database is not fully fetched during installation because of a faulty internet connection, it is possible to retry later using the
.B --update
option.
.PP
.B maclookup
stays up to date by downloading the iee's latest database and storing it in
.B /usr/local/share/maclookup\fR.
The update is not automatic, and must be performed at the user's request by using the
.B -u
option (see
.B EXAMPLES\fR).
Before updating the database, a backup is created. If the update fails or is stopped (by sending a signal for example), then the backup is restored and will be used in subsequent use of 
.B maclookup\fR.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h, --help
display this help message and exit
.TP
.B \-v, --version
output version information and exit
.TP
.B \-u, --update
update the oui.txt database
.SH EXAMPLES
All the below mac addresses are randomly generated, with a valid company id (first three digits).
.TP
Find the manufacturer of a mac address
.B maclookup
08:61:95:02:ff:f2
.PP
.TP
Find the manufacturer of a mac address using only manufacturer digits
.B maclookup
08-61-95
.PP
.TP
Read a mac address on the standard input, and find its manufacturer
echo '08:61:95:02:2b:4c' | 
.B chktropy
\-S
.PP
.TP
Read a mac address on the standard input, and find its manufacturer, and write it to a file
echo '08:61:95' | 
.B chktropy
\-S > output.txt
.PP
.SH EXIT STATUS
maclookup returns a zero exist status.
.br
Non zero is returned in case of failure.
.SH AUTHOR
Written by
.B Mathias Schmitt
.SH SEE ALSO
ip(8), lshw(1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
.PP
Copyright (C) 2020  Mathias Schmitt

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.
